the Marvel Cinematic Universe has been
an incredibly interesting experiment by
Disney and Marvel Studios it's creating
new interest in the comics his almost
single-handedly turned superhero movies
into hollywood's new giant cash cow and
it's expanding the Cinematic Universe is
spilling over onto TV with agents of
shield and Netflix with the recently
announced during a miniseries they plan
on producing and that's great I wasn't
even a big fan of Marvel before the
movie started coming out and now I read
multiple Marvel books each month I used
to only read Batman but I feel like
they're squandering their potential
Marbles been doing great but they have
had a few missteps nothing big enough to
really draw attention but they've had a
few such as thor marvel decided i'm
making a thor movie because at the time
he was one of the few semi major
characters they still held the rights to
they didn't own spider-man and they
didn't own the x-men in fact the only
big name they held the rights to was the
Hulk a year or two later of course an
iron man would be one of the best-known
superheroes on the planet thanks in no
small part to Robert doing jr. but when
they started this cinematic universe
journey they didn't have a lot to pick
from if they made a Thor movie it could
work toward an Avengers movie so they
made it and it worked out pretty well
but it was no blockbuster to say the
least it did well grossing about 480
million dollars worldwide but compared
to the vast majority of superhero movies
coming out at the time and since that's
a pretty paltry number the sequel thor
the dark world has recently been
released and is on track to do more or
less the same at the box office but it
had a bigger budget captain america
actually made less than Thor but it
received much higher praise from critics
and its sequel the Winter Soldier looks
like it's going to be a more traditional
Hollywood action movie which could lead
to better box office performance what
does Marvel have coming up next
guardians of the galaxy a series that I
certainly hadn't heard of before it was
announced and one that features
characters including a gun-toting
raccoon and a talking tree I've spoken
to quite a few hardcore Marvel fans and
even they're not all that excited for it
interested yes but not really excited
after that we have the Avengers sequel
age of Ultron which will probably be
amazing and gross like two billion
dollars and it's introducing the Scarlet
Witch character which I'm really excited
about because that could lead to some
seriously dramatic and amazing
storylines in the future go ahead and
look up the Scarlet Witch girl has
issues but then after age of Ultron we
have ant-man I never heard of ant-man
before I read The Young Avengers comics
and even there he was at a very small
role the biggest Marvel fans I know are
even worried about how that one's going
to turn out and of course then there's
agents of shield which has been so
lovingly nicknamed CSI Marvel comic book
fans don't think that there's enough
Marvel in the show while casual viewers
think that it's two comic booky it's
improved since the earlier episodes but
the ratings have been decreasing
steadily each week it has had a full
season picked up though but one can't
help but wonder if that's less because
of popular demand and more because
Disney doesn't want to admit that not
everything from Marvel Studios as gold
now Marvel's in a pickle because Robert
Downey jr. has said he doesn't want to
do any more solo Iron Man movies iron
man has been by far the most successful
solo series that Marvel has released the
trilogy having grossed almost 2.5
billion dollars worldwide no other
Marvel movie can touch iron man except
spider-man would they don't actually own
the production rates too sure the
Avengers made more money but Tony Stark
was front and center in that as well so
what can Marvel do well Iron Man is
successful because people like to think
they can relate to Tony Stark yes he's
rich and brilliant but he's got problems
just like everyone else people relate to
spider-man because Peter Parker is in
every man people relate to the x-men
because they appeal to the minority in a
Cell the put-upon emergen alized have
you tried not being a mutant can you
relate to Thor a literal god but like I
said Marvel and Disney aren't allowed to
make spider-man or x-men movies even
though they would probably love to get
their hands back on their most popular
and relatable characters but you better
believe Sony and Fox are not going to
give up their grip on those franchises
so what can Marvel do they need to start
another franchise with a hero that
people can relate to personally I hope
this turns out to be the young avengers
series but that's probably just a pipe
dream and not even feasible until phase
four at the very earliest probably phase
five but they really do need to
introduce some characters that people
can relate to captain america and thor
are fun but not really relatable there
are so many amazing characters in Marvel
who could easily support their own movie
and could grab the audience's like Iron
Man has but they're not doing anything
with them as a movie fan and a superhero
fan I really want marble to succeed in
this but I fear they might be going a
little too far out for mainstream
audiences to follow let me know what you
think do you think Marvel is squandering
an opportunity or do you think they're
doing it all just right let me know in
the comments below I'll be back next
week with another episode so until then
let's subscribe comment and share do all
that stuff and I'll see you next week